One of the key aspects of Lean Startup
is knowing how to measure, it is knowing
how to identify the metrics that allow
us to advance in this process.
As you know, we have to start
by identifying the hypotheses
of our business model and what
we have to do is validate them,
and we validate them through
experiments, through the minimum
viable product, etc.
How do we know if we are on the right
track or not?
Well, we know it mainly
using metric, because
it will be more objective.
And from those results what
we will do will be to pivot
or continue on the path we were on.
It is very important to know
what type of metric to use.
Lean Startup proposes that
we use metrics that are different
from the metrics that are
usually used to manage
any business.
And in fact he warns us not
to use what he considers Vanity
Metrics, vanidious metrics.
Instead, we must use metrics
that are useful, which allow
us to make decisions based on
those metrics.
Let's first look at what Eric Rice
is talking about when he talks about
Vanity Metrics.
We are talking about metrics
that help us draw a curve in
this way.
If you only fix on sales or you
fix on metrics like the number
of downloads or likes you
have had on social networks,
it may be that if you have a
certain attraction you can draw,
you can pick up the metrics
of your business and draw a
graphic in this way.
And what does this mean?
This means you are on the
right path, it doesn't have to
be so.
And most importantly, these metrics
we were talking about,
the number of users, the
number of visits, sales, etc.
Most importantly, do you have the ability
to make decisions?
Do you know if you are on the
right track or not?
Do they allow you to learn?
No is no.
I will explain a few examples.
We are improving our product.
We are improving our product and
we are improving our website, we
are testing different channels,
we are testing many things
at once.
And it turns out that sales are growing.
Well, what is the cause of that?
How do we establish a cause-affection relationship?
How do we learn?
How do we know which experiments
are going well and which
are not?
How do we know which way
we should go?
It is very complicated.
And it's also that, look,
sales may be kicking up simply
because you're investing
more in marketing.
Invest more in marketing, sales
grow, it seems you are on the right
track but it doesn't have to
be so.
Because you may be looking at customers
who are really not satisfied if
they don't buy again and
you have a business that is not
sustainable.
Or it turns out that you're investing
a lot of money in having thousands
of followers on social media.
This fact does not give you
much information.
Or you're investing a lot of
money in capturing new customers
in a recurrence or subscription business.
Well, it's true that the
number of customers can
be growing and that can
make their sales grow
on time.
However, it's because you're
investing more, it's not because
you're improving, it's
because you're learning.
Well, as we see, Eric Rice warns
us that, eye, with the
metrics we use we do not
use vanidious metrics.
These metrics are also often
used to convince investors,
to convince yourself that
you are on the right track.
In any case, it is an error.
And what it tells us is that
the only metrics we have to use,
in which we have to put absolute
focus, those are the metrics
that allow us to make decisions,
the metrics that allow
us to learn.
Basically, they are the metrics that
allow us to move forward in the cycle.
What kind of metric are they?
They are mainly metrics
that are more related to
customer behavior.
Let's take an example, the churn
rate.
The churn rate is the percentage
of your customers
who drop each year.
Well, if you do what you do is systematically
measure the evolution of the
churn rate, because this generates
a very valuable information, because
if the churn rate is increasing,
if you are given more customers down,
well, because you will have
an indicator, an alarm that something
is not going well, that you
are not on the right path or
maybe that there is a competitor
who is doing things better
than you.
Or, for example, you can measure
metrics related to conversions.
How many people visit my website?
And what percentage of those customers
become customers?
How many of these customers recommend
us to others?
Repeat things, etc.? to
These conversion-related metrics
are much more representative
of customer behavior, since
you're doing something that
customers like and also
allows you to isolate
experiments.
That is, we are making an improvement
on our website, as what we have
to do is measure whether conversions
within the website are
improving.
Or, if we make an improvement
to our product, what we have
to measure is whether
related ratios, recurrence-
related metrics, for example,
or with which our customers
are recommending us to others
are improving.
We set a foundation and what we
do is go constantly analyzing
how those metrics, which
are the most important
in your business, are improving.
But don't look, really, don't
look at sales, don't fall into
everyone's mistake.
Don't be obsessed with
sales, absolute values of customer
numbers, number of visits,
etc.
One day it will play you.
There will be a time when you have
absolutely validated your business
model and what you have to do
is grow as much as possible in sales.
But until you validate it,
when what you touch is learning,
what you have to do is forget
those metrics and use metrics
that allow you to learn, being
redundant, that allow you
to make decisions, that allow
you to know if you are on
the right path or not.